All right, let's get into some ASO, also known as Apple Search Optimization.
I know personally, people that run studios, where their apps, the only
advertising they
do is Apple Search ads and Apple Search Optimization.
And together, because they work together very closely, they are doing six
figures a month.
And it's extremely, extremely profitable, extremely profitable.
Because ASO is pretty much completely profitable, and then Apple Search ads,
that's the only
money they're spending.
But that's really profitable, too.
So the power, this is not something you should sleep on.
A lot of people sleep on it, but ASO, honestly, I look at it as a pre-do
principle type of
thing.
The 80/20 rule, do 20% of work that will account for 80% of the results.
How it works is everything you do in your apps title, description, mostly title
, subtitle
keywords, that will affect its rankings on the app store.
It will affect it when you look up your apps name.
Is it number one?
Is it number two?
Is it number three?
It will, if your app is in a specific category, like Calli is a Calli tracker,
and you look
up Calli tracker, we are the fourth one that comes up.
And this all comes down to Apple Search Optimization.
You could keep refining this and month after month, do all these little tweaks
that will
help you improve and go up on the rankings for these different keywords over
time.
And a lot of people do that.
Like the studio I mentioned, they're obsessed with their rankings, and they're
always adapting,
always doing these little tweaks, changing keywords, all the stuff that I'll
get into
in order to rank higher.
For me, I look at it as something when you set up the app once, do it, do it
right, that
will account for 80% of the results you'll get, and then just leave it,
honestly, don't
spend more time, focus on more scalable channels.
So Apple Search Optimization.
How does it work?
Well, have you ever wondered why we named Calli I, Calli I Dash, Calli tracker?
It's not because we want people to know that Calli I is a Calli tracker.
It's because the name is the most important part to Apple categorizing your app
.
If we put Calli tracker in the subtitle instead of in the name, then we would
drop a few places
on app store rankings when you look up Calli tracker right now.
Your main keywords you want to include in your name.
Essentially, how it goes is there's a hierarchy of importance.
So a lot of people think that the keyword sections, the keyword section on your
app,
and sorry to jump around them, I'll go back to this in a second.
But a lot of people think the keywords for your app are, and I actually hate
that whatever,
okay.
People think the keywords for your app is very important for the, I'm just
thinking like,
is it sensitive to show this because competitors may watch this and they see
our keywords?
Is that bad?
I don't think they can do much with it.
We'll see.
We'll see what happens.
I think we're okay.
Yes, I think most of these keywords are actually public.
Whatever.
So a lot of people see these keywords and they think, okay, keywords are the
only thing
that matters for app store rankings.
That's not true.
Keywords are pretty important, but they're the third most important thing.
First is your name, second is your subtitle, and last is your keywords.
And what you essentially want to do is figure out a list of all the keywords
that are closest
to your niche, rank them, and then start putting them into most relevant to
your name,
least relevant to the keywords.
But it's not just about relevancy.
It's also about how saturated each keyword is because some keywords have so
many, so
many apps, but in calorie tracker, for example, in the name.
And so it's very difficult to rank.
Whereas if we did something like, I don't know, food counter in the name, it's
less,
less people are doing that.
And so it would be easier for us to rank on the app store charts.
And by rank, I literally mean, I'll show you.
I literally mean if you look up calorie tracker, look up calorie tracker alone,
scroll down,
one my fitness pal, two some other app, three, lose it, and four, Cal AI.
And that is driving us many downloads a day.
I think probably like a few hundred, honestly, it's not that many.
That's why this isn't so scalable, but those few hundred downloads are making
us a few
hundred dollars a day, completely profitable, completely, profitably, all just
because we
set this up early on.
So what you'll want to do when you're setting up your app is one, it would be
sick if within
your actual apps name, you are strategic and include some keywords that will
help you.
So for us, putting AI in Cal AI is actually fucking incredible because if we,
if our app
was called like, I don't know, calorie, like calorie pro, and we wanted our app
to come
up when you look up AI calorie tracker, we couldn't write calorie pro dash,
calorie
tracker, we would have to write calorie pro dash AI, calorie tracker.
And I don't even think that fits.
There's a limit of like 30 characters here.
And so it's very important that all of the space is very utilized.
You want to basically hit everything.
I think the more keywords you fit, actually the less impactful each one will be
.
These are some things I've, I've learned.
So that's why we don't fit like another one in here.
Also just look stupid, cal or jever fit.
So there definitely is a balance when creating the name of your app between
actually sounding
cool, looking like a brand and then also packing keywords in.
So okay, hierarchy, you want your top keyword up there with your name.
So a lot of people will do the name of their app dash their main keywords.
Subtitle, second best keywords, food and macro counter.
Like that's kind of related to calorie.
It is what it is.
It's a food and macro counter.
But I think in the past we had like fitness, like counter, I don't know,
tracker, all
the stuff, but we realized those keywords actually weren't, they weren't as,
they didn't get
as many searches.
And by the way, all of this, you can check in app tweak.com.
It has some kind of, so keywords, you can for different keywords, you like
search them.
I have to cost money.
I think there's a free trial, but you can see the volume of how many people are
searching
it per month.
So calorie tracker, 100, 100,000 people search that every single month.
The difficulty is 43, which is pretty high.
A lot of people use it.
And Cali is rank is number four.
Okay.
It's estimating that Cali, we get 2,700 downloads from calorie tracker every
single month and
4,640 from calorie counter.
So we make about $3 in profit per download.
So that is like almost 20K in just pure profit just because we have these terms
.
So great.
We have our title subtitle.
And by the way, you do not want to use the same keywords over and over.
If you put, if I put calorie tracker in subtitle, it will assume it will act as
if it wasn't
in name, it will act as if it was only in the subtitle.
So it would lower the importance.
So you only want to say a keyword and each word is used as a keyword.
So how it works is within this, you might only think there's like one, two,
three, four,
five, six, seven different keyword pairs.
There's just seven different words, but how it actually works is it matches up
all these
words.
So if you look up food calorie tracker, that will, we will be in that rank.
If you look up macro calorie tracker, we will be in that ranking.
If you look up counter calorie, we'll be in that ranking.
If you look up Cal AI macro counter, it essentially just like merges all the
possible permutations
of your keywords, placing preference to name, then subtitle and keywords.
So you'll want to fit not necessarily as many as you can, but you'll want to
keep it clean
for the nice, brand aesthetic while putting your most important ones in the
name and subtitle.
You should honestly try to fill it mostly.
I feel like 10 spaces left over.
We may actually want to add another one for Cal AI.
It seems like I'm going to stop opportunity.
So then the last place is your keywords and here.
It's very important.
You don't want to put a space in between each one.
You want to put a comma in between each word to be because that's how you
separate it.
You separate it with commas, but a lot of people will do comma space and then
that just loses
you a character.
So don't put spaces and you'll get more keywords.
And then you just want to squeeze as many.
And remember, do not repeat from the subtitle or the title.
Just fit as many as you can.
If you're looking for keywords, app tweak is a great place to find some
keywords to use.
You can look at your competitors, see what keywords they use and that's pretty
helpful.
Or you can just raw it out of your head, but that's, I mean, if you're just
trying to
launch and get it out quick and sure, but I would go back.
I would look at, I would use some of these keyword tools.
You could also use search out optimization, which I showed in one of the
previous modules
and that has a keyword finder as well.
So that's a very important step of ASO is the title subtitle and keywords.
Consider that the next important thing is the app icon and app source
screenshots.
What we just went through the title subtitle keywords, this will help your app
rank for
these different keywords.
This will help your app show up.
Once someone actually looks up, once someone looks up, Callard Tracker, what
will make them
click on yours rather than someone else's?
This primarily comes down to the icon and screenshots.
So for us, our screenshots are honestly not the best in my opinion.
The thing is, these are literally the screenshots we started the app with or
maybe like a month
after launching we changed to these.
However, we haven't been able to beat them for some reason.
We've done all these iterations.
I think it's partially a problem with Apple's A/B testing software for A/B
testing screenshots.
What you could do, by the way, in the product page optimization, which is all
about app
store optimization, you could run some tests where you A/B tested and run
screenshots and
we tried all this stuff like putting AI Callard Tracker really big because
essentially theories
say you want like three words max really big at the top, then some visuals and
just big
catchy headlines for every screenshot.
But for us, for some reason, our more raw screenshots that we built very early
on have
just been winning every single test.
And we're still working on improving it.
But I would keep in mind that even these, they're not bad screenshots.
What you want is usually a visual of the app show clearly what it does and try
to make
it short and snappy.
This is too long in my opinion.
It's working right now, but we're working on fixing the headlines.
Make Callard tracking easy with AI.
Just have a picture of your food.
Then let's do the rest.
Only three screenshots are shown until someone clicks into your app.
So the first are the most important and ideally they can kind of tell a story
together.
Just have a picture, then let us do the rest.
Tells a story.
They need each other.
They can't really stand alone.
So that's important.
You could actually see your app store your conversion rate in the analytics
page.
And the conversion rate means how many people see your app and then we'll click
on it.
Leave the conversion rate.
Yeah.
So the hours out of the people that see it about 21% will click into the page.
Not necessarily download it, but just click into the page.
Oh, okay.
It's actually downloads out of people that clicked into it.
So my bad.
21% of people go to the Cali ad page and download it.
All of these numbers that we've actually had are very skewed, I've noticed,
because of
influencer marketing.
Most people that run paid ads have different numbers.
They're like, "Wow, our numbers are really bad or really good to these people,
but it's
just all skewed and a little different because we have influencers promoting it
and it's
not paid ads going directly to the page with maybe higher intent or lower
intent sometimes."
So the last thing that's important is the icon.
Super, super important.
So just up here.
The icon and the screenshots both can have a significant effect on the
conversion rate.
This icon, we used to just have the apple.
We used to just have it.
You can look in our, okay, can you see this?
Metadata history.
So our old logo was just the apple.
And then we added the scan lines because we hypothesized, all right, if we add
the scan
lines, it will tell the user that you're actually taking the picture.
It's scanning something.
It's not just an apple.
You understand more of what the app may be doing.
And that alone boosted the conversion rate 7%, which is huge.
It's massive.
So do not underestimate the power of your icons and screenshots in these small
tweaks.
You want to try to show what the app does in the most clean way possible.
Okay.
So this is very high level.
App Store optimization, breakdown of it.
If you're interested in learning more, I actually attached, there are all kinds
of great articles
by app tweak on this topic.
And if you go to their start, so section, they break down so much about best
practices
for screenshots, how to a B test, app icon design, keywords.
And I would definitely recommend reading them.
It's definitely worth it to get a deeper understanding.
But with this, you should be able to start making money.
This is, yeah, this is the app store optimization section.
It's a quick one, not too much involved, not as complicated as the other ones.
But it's very, very profitable.
So with that, I'm up.
[BLANK_AUDIO]